hey everybody welcome to another good
e-reader comparison video my name is
Mike this is Peter today we're going to
engage in a nighttime reading test
between the Kobo aura HD on the right
and the Bo Caine Sai book Odyssey HD
with glow on the Left we're just going
to show you the different illumination
levels and give you a sense on what both
of these devices bring to the table
first we're gonna turn on the Kobo aura
it's a button on the top of the device
right next to the power button you just
press that and on a side book you have
to press and hold the home button for
about one or two seconds and then it
should show up the bar automatically
shows up on the side book whereas on the
Kobo you have to press the sunshine up
there and then click brightness and then
you can start to toggle now you'll
notice that both of these are half way
and they're both active and you can
really see the quality of each of these
the cyber is a little bit brighter but
at the same time it's a little more
harsh the black start to become purple
it's it's a you get a little bit of
discoloration whereas the Kobo it's very
consistent very soft and it's actually
very white yeah I mean I think a lot of
the reason of the discoloration on the
Sybok is because most of the UI elements
are black and so you really kind of see
and your eyes sort of gravitate towards
like that purplish type of glow but I'm
gonna I'm gonna also say that the Kobo
aura it's more white and it's more
evenly distributed even without because
these you could see the blacks here and
those aren't really looking the same as
the black sphere exactly so what we're
gonna do is take it to the extremities
of each side so we're gonna drop it down
all the way to the bottom as well as the
Kobo aura now you can tell that the side
book is still very bright and that can
be a contributing factor to your battery
life not lasting as long whereas the
Kobo aura is at its very lowest which is
about 1% and although it may show
complete darkness on camera it is
actually a little bit readable in the
studio here so keep
mind and now we're gonna turn them all
to 100% now you can still see that the
Kobo is very consistent no matter where
you put the bar it's going to be nice
and soft nice and even throughout the
where the bezel touches the device
whereas on the side book you see a
little bit of darkness at the bottom the
light splashes harshly at time so it's
not as consistent as the Kobo aura and
note that this is Kobo second glow light
device so they've had a lot of time to
refine it yeah I mean Cobos I think just
a bigger company with their huge ebook
ecosystem and constantly putting out
devices so let's just take a look at
what the reading experience is like so
with the Kobo I mean you could see it
text and fonts a little bit darker a
little bit saturated this isn't as dark
although you can configure it but I
think the Kobo gives you just deeper
levels of configuration to make the text
lighter make the text darker right I
mean with the front light device what
you're trying to avoid is the light
bothering you it's supposed to be
seamless whereas on the on the side book
it's a little too bright at its highest
level it's just it's just too glaring
and you're kind of in-your-face so you
have to find a comfortable level to
really get it that's about the same as
the Kobo right there yeah and I mean I
think the Kobo gives you a little bit
more versatility and I find that when
you're doing the brightness the slider
bar really helps right where's this is
hue yeah to choose you have no real
middle ground but the code was just way
softer the blacks are blacker this is
significantly higher resolution I mean I
mean they just they've had it's just
clear because it had more time to
develop their quote technology okay
let's hear your thoughts you've heard
ours please comment on this video and
for all of our other videos check out
our youtube channel at youtube.com slash
good ereader
and for all the latest news previews
interviews industry coverage and a whole
lot more make sure to check out our web
site at good e-reader calm and for a
comparison video of the Kobo or HD
versus the cyber
is CHD with front light raggedy reader
calm my name is Michael my name is Peter
everybody take care